README.md, before:

# Volumes Backup and Share Extension

[![Build, Scan and Push](https://github.com/docker/volumes-backup-extension/actions/workflows/build-scan-push.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/docker/volumes-backup-extension/actions/workflows/build-scan-push.yaml)
[![Lint Dockerfile](https://github.com/docker/volumes-backup-extension/actions/workflows/hadolint.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/docker/volumes-backup-extension/actions/workflows/hadolint.yaml)


> [!IMPORTANT]
> The functionality in this extension is now available as a Beta feature in the Volumes tab of Docker Desktop in versions 4.29.0 and above. This extension will be deprecated once the features are out of Beta. [Learn more](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/use-desktop/volumes/)


![Extension Screenshot](./docs/images/1-table.png)

🚀 This extension was originally created by [Felipe Cruz](https://github.com/felipecruz91/)

## Features

- Export a volume:
  - To a compressed file in your local filesystem
  - To an existing local image
  - To a new local image
- To a new image in Docker Hub (or another registry)
- Import data into a new container or into an existing container:
  - From a compressed file in your local filesystem
  - From an existing image
  - From an existing image in Docker Hub (or another registry)
- Transfer a volume via SSH to another host that runs Docker Desktop or Docker engine.
- Clone a volume
- Empty a volume
- Delete a volume

## Installation

The recommended way to install the extension is from the Marketplace in Docker Desktop.
You could also install it with the Docker Extensions CLI, targeting either a published released (e.g. `1.0.0`) or branch (e.g. `main`):
```bash
  docker extension install docker/volumes-backup-extension:main
```

## Run Locally

Clone the project

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/docker/volumes-backup-extension.git
```

Go to the project directory

```bash
  cd volumes-backup-extension
```

Build the extension

```bash
  docker build -t docker/volumes-backup-extension:latest .
```

Install the extension

```bash
  docker extension install docker/volumes-backup-extension:latest
```

Developing the frontend

```bash
  cd ui
  npm install
  npm start
```

This starts a development server that listens on port 3000.

You can now tell Docker Desktop to use this as the frontend source. In another terminal run:

```bash
  docker extension dev ui-source docker/volumes-backup-extension:latest http://localhost:3000
```

In order to open the Chrome Dev Tools for your extension when you click on the extension tab, run:

```bash
  docker extension dev debug docker/volumes-backup-extension:latest
```

Each subsequent click on the extension tab will also open Chrome Dev Tools. To stop this behaviour, run:

```bash
  docker extension dev reset docker/volumes-backup-extension:latest
```

## Acknowledgements

- [Vackup project by Bret Fisher](https://github.com/BretFisher/docker-vackup)
- [Building Vackup - LiveStream on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BHKp7Sc3VVc)

Commit message:

docs: updates the deprecation banner warning when the extension will be removed from the marketplace

README.md, after:

# Volumes Backup and Share Extension

[![Build, Scan and Push](https://github.com/docker/volumes-backup-extension/actions/workflows/build-scan-push.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/docker/volumes-backup-extension/actions/workflows/build-scan-push.yaml)
[![Lint Dockerfile](https://github.com/docker/volumes-backup-extension/actions/workflows/hadolint.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/docker/volumes-backup-extension/actions/workflows/hadolint.yaml)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The functionality in this extension has been available in the Volumes tab of Docker Desktop in versions 4.29 and later. This extension will be deprecated and removed from the marketplace effective September 30, 2024. [Learn more](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/use-desktop/volumes/)

![Extension Screenshot](./docs/images/1-table.png)

🚀 This extension was originally created by [Felipe Cruz](https://github.com/felipecruz91/)

## Features

- Export a volume:
  - To a compressed file in your local filesystem
  - To an existing local image
  - To a new local image
- To a new image in Docker Hub (or another registry)
- Import data into a new container or into an existing container:
  - From a compressed file in your local filesystem
  - From an existing image
  - From an existing image in Docker Hub (or another registry)
- Transfer a volume via SSH to another host that runs Docker Desktop or Docker engine.
- Clone a volume
- Empty a volume
- Delete a volume

## Installation

The recommended way to install the extension is from the Marketplace in Docker Desktop.
You could also install it with the Docker Extensions CLI, targeting either a published released (e.g. `1.0.0`) or branch (e.g. `main`):

```bash
  docker extension install docker/volumes-backup-extension:main
```

## Run Locally

Clone the project

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/docker/volumes-backup-extension.git
```

Go to the project directory

```bash
  cd volumes-backup-extension
```

Build the extension

```bash
  docker build -t docker/volumes-backup-extension:latest .
```

Install the extension

```bash
  docker extension install docker/volumes-backup-extension:latest
```

Developing the frontend

```bash
  cd ui
  npm install
  npm start
```

This starts a development server that listens on port 3000.

You can now tell Docker Desktop to use this as the frontend source. In another terminal run:

```bash
  docker extension dev ui-source docker/volumes-backup-extension:latest http://localhost:3000
```

In order to open the Chrome Dev Tools for your extension when you click on the extension tab, run:

```bash
  docker extension dev debug docker/volumes-backup-extension:latest
```

Each subsequent click on the extension tab will also open Chrome Dev Tools. To stop this behaviour, run:

```bash
  docker extension dev reset docker/volumes-backup-extension:latest
```

## Acknowledgements

- [Vackup project by Bret Fisher](https://github.com/BretFisher/docker-vackup)
- [Building Vackup - LiveStream on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BHKp7Sc3VVc)
